---
slug: '/docs/design/tracing'
title: 'Full-Link Tracing Design'
sidebar_position: 4
hide_title: true
---

Observability is very important, and with the relatively good `OpenTelemetry` standard available now, it will be more convenient for various third-party components and vendors to expose and interface with telemetry data according to this standard. What we are discussing today is link tracing, which is a very important metric in observability.
:::tip
The `GoFrame` framework has high forward-looking capabilities. It began to pay continuous attention during the draft stage of the `OpenTelemetry` standard and started to support it when the `OTEL` standard released its `alpha` version. Currently, the `Golang` implementation of `OTEL` is stable. `GoFrame` is one of the many "frameworks" that supports the `OTEL` standard and implementation the best. Using the `GoFrame` framework implicitly comes with link tracing features. Moreover, observability is also a key feature in the framework's future development.
:::

## 1. Pain Points in Project Practice

In project practice, implementing link tracing often encounters the following common pain points.

### 1. Components Do Not Strictly Follow Standards

Although there is an `OTEL` standard, third-party components do not strictly enforce it. For example, in logging and `ORM` components, there is no strict constraint on passing the `ctx` context variable.

### 2. Third-Party Components Are Chaotic

Many third-party components are used in business projects, and some components do not support link tracing, let alone the `OTEL` standard. For example, commonly used components such as command management, configuration management, cache management, data validation, and scheduled tasks do not provide `ctx` context variable passing. When the components used do not support link passing, the link information is lost.

### 3. Business Logic Easily Loses Links

In business projects, there is no detection method for link tracing, which means that link tracing can be accidentally lost while writing code. For example, creating a new `ctx` or passing a `nil` `ctx` in link transmission. When strategic design encounters a poor tactical implementation, it's game over when you need to locate problems. This is especially frustrating in `toB` businesses where there are ticket deadlines.

## 2. Framework Full-Link Tracing

### 1. Unified Framework

Since `GoFrame` is a comprehensive basic framework, it provides the common core basic components needed for projects, making it very convenient to uniformly implement link tracing standards in basic components.

### 2. Standard Implementation

Support for the `ctx` context variable has been added to the core components of the framework, and the `OTEL` standard is strictly enforced to ensure the smooth implementation of the standard.

### 3. Logging Support

In engineering practice, logging is a very important component for link tracing. In most business scenarios, we need to use link tracing and log content to investigate and locate specific problems. The logging component of the `GoFrame` framework also supports and strictly implements the `OTEL` standard, so as long as you use the framework's logging component, it will also automatically print link-related information.

### 4. Standard Detection Tools

The framework provides project standard detection functions through development tools, which can automatically detect link loss issues in business projects, further promoting the implementation of the `OTEL` standard and ensuring project quality.

### 5. Link Transmission Support

The transmission of links also requires unified components. The most common protocols currently are `HTTP/GRPC` protocols, so the framework also provides `HTTP Client/Server` and `GRPC Client/Server` components to ensure the transmission of links. To improve介入性和易用性, and to shield complex underlying functional details, this link transmission is implemented **implicitly** at the bottom layer, and users are completely unaware of it.
