---
slug: '/docs/cli'
title: 'Development Tools'
sidebar_position: 3
hide_title: true
---

The `GoFrame` framework provides a powerful command-line development auxiliary tool `gf`, which is an important part of the framework's development. Tool address:

- [https://github.com/gogf/gf/tree/master/cmd/gf](https://github.com/gogf/gf/tree/master/cmd/gf) 

For tool installation, please refer to the repository page. After the tool is installed, you can view all supported commands by running `gf` or `gf -h`. For complex commands, you can view more detailed usage help information by running `gf COMMAND -h`, for example: `gf gen -h`.

## Tool Responsibilities

1. Simplify project development and improve development efficiency.
2. Support the accurate implementation of framework engineering design specifications.

## Notes

1. Some commands require you to have a `Golang` basic development environment installed first. For specific installation instructions, please refer to the [Environment Setup](../Other Materials/Preparation/Environment Setup.md) section.
2. The latest `CLI` tool version will follow the latest framework version.

## Configuration Support

**All commands of the tool support both command-line and configuration file parameters to improve usability. When command-line parameters are given, they are read first. If command-line parameters do not exist, the corresponding parameter names in the configuration file are read automatically.**

The configuration file path first searches for the `hack` directory in the current directory (`hack/config.yaml`), and then searches for the configuration file according to the framework's default configuration path. For the framework's default configuration file search path, please refer to the section: [Configuration Management - File Configuration](/docs/core/gcfg-file)

Example of configuration file format:

```yaml
# GoFrame CLI tool configuration.
gfcli:
  gen:
    dao:
    - link:            "mysql:root:12345678@tcp(127.0.0.1:3306)/test"
      tables:          "user"
      removePrefix:    "gf_"
      descriptionTag:  true
      noModelComment:  true

  docker:
    build: "-a amd64 -s linux -p temp"
    tagPrefixes:
    - ccr.ccs.tencentyun.com/xxx
    - hkccr.ccs.tencentyun.com/xxx
    - sgccr.ccs.tencentyun.com/xxx
```

Please note that the above configuration example is for reference only, and specific configuration items should be referred to the specific command help.

## Tool Debugging

When encountering problems in the use of the tool, you can try to open the tool's debug mode to obtain more detailed tool execution log information. The tool debug mode can be opened through the `debug` command-line option, for example:

```bash
gf build main.go --debug
```

Since the `gf` tool is also developed using the `GoFrame` framework, the way to open debug information is consistent with the framework method. For more detailed introduction, please refer to the framework documentation: [Debugging Mode](/docs/core/debugging)

## Command Overview

This help document is a simple introduction based on the `gf cli v2.0.0` version. For detailed introduction information, please check the command-line help information. The content of this chapter may be outdated, and the latest detailed introduction should be checked in the tool help information.

```bash
$ gf
USAGE
   gf COMMAND [OPTION]

COMMAND
   env        show current Golang environment variables
   run        running go codes with hot-compiled-like feature
   gen        automatically generate go files for dao/dto/entity/pb/pbentity...
   init       create and initialize an empty GoFrame project
   pack       packing any file/directory to a resource file, or a go file
   build      cross-building go project for lots of platforms
   docker     build docker image for current GoFrame project
   install    install gf binary to system (might need root/admin permission)
   version    show version information of current binary

OPTION
   -y, --yes        all yes for all command without prompt ask
   -v, --version    show version information of current binary
   -d, --debug      show internal detailed debugging information
   -h, --help       more information about this command

ADDITIONAL
    Use "gf COMMAND -h" for details about a command.
```
